README.md, before:

# zandiHyde_bipolar_rnaseq [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/88870656.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/88870656)

This GitHub repository contains the code for analyzing the RNA-seq data from the BipSeq project available through PsychENCODE at https://psychencode.synapse.org/Explore/Studies/DetailsPage?study=syn5844980. 

In order to cite this project, please cite:

* Zandi PP,+, Jaffe AE, Goes FS, Burke EE, Collado-Torres L, Huuli LA, Seyedian A, Lin Y, Seifuddin F, Pirooznia M, Ross CA, Kleinman JE, Weinberger DR, Hyde TM,+, _TBD_, 2021

+ Correspondence to: pzandi1@jhu.edu or thomas.hyde@libd.org


## Files

This GitHub repository follows a similar file structure to the one from [BrainSEQ Phase II](https://github.com/LieberInstitute/brainseq_phase2). In general, each directory contains the scripts for a given analysis. If you have any questions about specific scripts, please use the issues and we'll try our best to respond your queries.

## Internal

JHPCE location: `/dcs04/lieber/lcolladotor/hydeZandi_LIBD2005/zandiHyde_bipolar_rnaseq`

Commit message:

Add BibTex for the citation
Co-authored-by: Louise Huuki <lahuuki@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# zandiHyde_bipolar_rnaseq [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/88870656.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/88870656)

This GitHub repository contains the code for analyzing the RNA-seq data from the BipSeq project available through PsychENCODE at https://psychencode.synapse.org/Explore/Studies/DetailsPage?study=syn5844980. 

In order to cite this project, please cite:

* Zandi PP,+, Jaffe AE, Goes FS, Burke EE, Collado-Torres L, Huuli LA, Seyedian A, Lin Y, Seifuddin F, Pirooznia M, Ross CA, Kleinman JE, Weinberger DR, Hyde TM,+, _TBD_, 2021

+ Correspondence to: pzandi1@jhu.edu or thomas.hyde@libd.org

Here's the citation in [BibTex](http://www.bibtex.org/) format:

```

@article{zandi_amygdala_2022,
	title = {Amygdala and anterior cingulate transcriptomes from individuals with bipolar disorder reveal downregulated neuroimmune and synaptic pathways},
	volume = {25},
	copyright = {2022 The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.},
	issn = {1546-1726},
	url = {https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-022-01024-6},
	doi = {10.1038/s41593-022-01024-6},
	language = {en},
	number = {3},
	urldate = {2022-04-11},
	journal = {Nature Neuroscience},
	author = {Zandi, Peter P. and Jaffe, Andrew E. and Goes, Fernando S. and Burke, Emily E. and Collado-Torres, Leonardo and Huuki-Myers, Louise and Seyedian, Arta and Lin, Yian and Seifuddin, Fayaz and Pirooznia, Mehdi and Ross, Christopher A. and Kleinman, Joel E. and Weinberger, Daniel R. and Hyde, Thomas M.},
	month = mar,
	year = {2022},
	note = {Number: 3 Publisher: Nature Publishing Group},
	keywords = {Bipolar disorder, Gene expression profiling},
	pages = {381--389}
}
```


## Files

This GitHub repository follows a similar file structure to the one from [BrainSEQ Phase II](https://github.com/LieberInstitute/brainseq_phase2). In general, each directory contains the scripts for a given analysis. If you have any questions about specific scripts, please use the issues and we'll try our best to respond your queries.

## Internal

JHPCE location: `/dcs04/lieber/lcolladotor/hydeZandi_LIBD2005/zandiHyde_bipolar_rnaseq`
